Hello, you crazy people.
So, I'm Sal Soghoian.
I'm the product manager for Automation
Technologies at Apple Computer.
And I'll be presenting
today with Chris Nebel,
who's the senior engineer of the
Automation Technologies team.
And this topic today is very important
to people that like to get things done,
that like to automate,
and like to deliver a good computing
experience for their customers,
whether it's the company they work in,
or people they sell scripts
or automation-type things to.
A big question that has come
up over the last year is,
well, how does this all fit together?
How do we enter this new phase
of OS-ness with some of the
funkiness from the last OS-ness?
And I hope some of your
questions get answered today.
Secure Automation Techniques
in... OS X Session 206.
So, I'm here today to discuss how the
introduction of security and a focus
on security that is highlighted by
the new app sandbox architecture
in Mountain Lion and the Gatekeeper
architecture affects the world of
automation and how that works together.
In this particular session,
we're not going to be looking at the
security structures in great depth.
Instead,
we're going to look at how the two
technologies intersect and the work that
we've done over this last year to make
sure that the experience continues to
be very useful and productive for you.
So, we will recommend a couple sessions
at the end of this talk that you
can attend if you're more interested
in some of the security details.
Now,
for each release of OS X over the years,
culminating in the release of Lion,
with dozens and dozens of
very productive features,
Automation has remained an essential
element of the operating system.
It's been core to what makes a
Mac a Mac and how a Mac runs.
This continues in our new
operating system release,
Mountain Lion.
Now, in Mountain Lion,
as you caught the keynote and
have seen from the massive
press that's been happening,
it has a lot of new features.
There's over 200 new features
in the operating system release.
It has a lot of focus on social,
as well as some hardware-related
things like AirPlay as well.
But in addition to all of those features,
it does have a focus on security
of delivering a really safe
computing environment to customers.
And specifically,
there are a couple new things.
There's Gatekeeper,
which allows the user control
over which applications are going
to run on their operating system.
And a new sandboxing architecture
that determines the scope of what an
application can do and how far it can
extend its abilities and its powers.
Now, we have basically the two
different kinds of worlds here.
We have a world of automation that's
used to kind of like an openness,
open access, open abilities,
that kind of a thing,
with the world of security
that is more defined,
more controlled.
So we have automation and
security coming together,
and what we've done is make it so that
it becomes automation with security.
And we hope that you find that the work
and the things that we've put into place
will satisfy your needs as people that
automate and deliver automation tools.
Now, when we were designing
this new architecture,
we had a couple goals in mind.
First was to preserve the
functionality that you're used to.
As people that write automation tools,
you look for a certain set of abilities,
and you rely on those abilities,
and you build those abilities
into the things that you do
and the things that you deliver
and that make you a livelihood.
We wanted to preserve as much of
the functionality as we could.
Secondly, we wanted that interaction
between the world of automation
and the world of security to
be as transparent as possible,
without a lot of dialogues,
without a lot of interaction required.
We wanted it to be logical and smooth.
And finally,
we wanted to minimize any changes
that we request of you as developers.
We had your needs in mind in that one,
especially because we know
how much work it takes.
You're in busy production cycles,
and there's all these
other things in the OS,
and oh, by the way,
you need to do this too.
So we wanted to minimize that,
and those were the goals
that we set in mind.
And to outline how we achieved that,
we're going to go through four different
automation scenarios that kind of
highlight the typical use of automation
in Mac OS X and how those uses
interact with the world of security.
So first will be personal automation,
where we,
and this encompasses all of the scripts,
the workflows, the command line tools,
all the different services,
the things that you make
yourself to run on your computer.
Next, we'll look at distributing scripts,
the process of making these
available to other people,
especially online, to download and use.
How does that get affected by
this new world of security?
Thirdly, we'll look at
application-to-application automation,
where applications talk to each
other and ask requests of each
other or commands to each other.
So we'll look at that.
And finally,
we'll look at attaching scripts,
which is a scenario
that's very commonly used,
where an application might host
a script menu or make itself
attachable to certain events.
And we'll look at that scenario as well.
Okay, let's begin.
Personal Automation.
As I said, this is the kind of tools
that you make yourself.
You might pass them out in your shop,
or you might just use
them in your studio,
or these might be tools that you as a
developer provide to your customers.
And they use the built-in
automation technologies of Mac OS X,
like AppleScript, Automator, Services,
the Terminal.
All of those kind of things
get encompassed into the
world of personal automation.
And it begins with... our friend Otto.
And in case you didn't notice,
this is the new Streamline Otto.
He might have lost a little weight.
He looks a little bit slicker.
He's got new shoes.
We're prevented from putting a
Nike logo on there because of
a bunch of legal interaction.
But anyway, he looks so much better now,
we think he's really improved.
So Automator is a visual interface
tool that customers can use
to create automation recipes
that are called workflows.
And these workflows can then be
saved as either applets that run
themselves or act as droplets,
or as system-wide services
that get installed contextually
throughout the operating system.
Automator's been a very popular tool.
It's in Macworld.
It has a monthly feature on it.
It's widely used by a lot
of different customers.
We use it internally as well.
And so I'm very pleased to
announce to you today that
Automator in Mountain Lion runs
with no restrictions whatsoever.
If you...
Well, I like how this is going.
Okay, so if I keep saying the
word no restrictions,
you're going to keep applauding?
Okay.
I like these guys.
They're just my kind of people.
So, all the workflows that you have,
that you use, if you build in Automator
technology into your applications,
and you have your own internal actions,
and you make those available,
all that runs with no restrictions.
You just create the workflows
and run them like you always do,
and it works fine.
Next, AppleScript,
the AppleScript Editor application
in the system-wide script menu.
Now,
AppleScript is an amazing technology.
It's why it came to Apple 15 years ago.
Yes, some days I feel like a
dinosaur looking for a tar pit.
But AppleScript's an amazing technology,
and it has constantly been
growing and improving.
A couple system releases ago,
we introduced AppleScript Objective-C,
which really revolutionized
the way that AppleScript works.
It's very popular to use,
and the scripts that you write and
run out of the AppleScript Editor,
and those scripts,
whether they're shell scripts or
AppleScript scripts that you load
into the system-wide script menu,
and you execute from there,
I'm pleased to announce they run
with absolutely no restrictions.
Yay!
I could just do this for an hour,
and you would be so happy.
And so would I.
I could take the Kevlar off.
No, no Kevlar today.
So, that's Automator and AppleScript.
Next,
there's always the Unix command line.
And what can you say about
the Unix command line?
But we love to love it.
You have all your various
command line tools,
and in addition to that big library
that ships with every Mac because
it's a Unix operating system,
there are some commands dealing directly
with Apple Events and with Automator.
There's OSA script and the command
Automator for the Automator.
And with those,
you can run and send Apple Events,
plus you can also execute
workflows files as well.
And again, like everything else,
it runs with no restrictions.
Yay!
And this is because all of these
tools that you use to create
your personal automations,
the AppleScript, the Automator,
the Services, the Terminal,
all of those tools,
the code for that is executed
by the operating system itself.
So if you write the code and it gets
executed by the operating system,
there are no restrictions.
So, to summarize one more time,
personal automation,
scripts you write yourself on the OS,
anything that you write that's
executed by the operating system
runs with no restrictions whatsoever.
Okay, applause.
All right, now let's get down into it.
For the good stuff.
No, it's all good.
You're going to love this.
So that's personal automation.
Next, let's look at distributing scripts.
And this is really a common practice.
You know, you find a nice tool
that you're looking for.
One of the great things about
writing automation is the ability
to share with other people.
We always like to do it.
It's like showing off the new shiny toy.
Look, I can make it do this.
I can make it do that.
Well, you can share on a friendly
basis between office mates,
or you could actually be part of
your professional persona that
you post scripts for other people
to use as professional tools.
You know, at Apple, we even do that, too.
And we just recently released a tool
called the Mastered for iTunes Droplet,
and it's part of the
Apple Audio Mastering Tools and
part of the new iTunes
Mastered for iTunes initiative.
And it's being used by hundreds of
thousands of professionals worldwide
to preview their songs and their
audio files as to how they're going
to sound in preparation for iTunes.
It's very high quality,
and all of that preparation
and all of that preview work is
done by an Apple Script Droplet.
So at Apple,
this is an important tool for us.
We take this very seriously.
So how does this get affected by?
the new features in Mountain Lion,
specifically Gatekeeper.
Now, Gatekeeper was designed to give the
user more control of which applications
can run in the operating system.
It lives in the security and privacy
preference pane and it has a section to
it that has three different settings.
This setting that I'm showing
right now is the Anywhere.
That means that any app you download,
it can just run.
The first setting is
for the Mac App Store,
and that means that only applications
that were purchased or downloaded
from the Mac App Store are
allowed to run on this computer
when that setting is active.
The next setting is the
Mac App Store and Identify Developers,
those developers that have
signing certificates with Apple.
And it is the default setting.
That's really important to note
that that is the default setting.
That, as developers,
is what you can expect your
customers will find on the computer.
Now, let's see how that interaction now
will occur if the user is using
Mountain Lion with the default setting.
So here I am on this great website,
macos10automation.com,
and I found a droplet
that I'm interested in.
I click the link on the page.
I download the droplet.
It unpacks and starts to run,
and I get this dialogue that appears.
And it says the applet that you've
downloaded can't be opened because
it is from an unidentified developer,
and that your security
preferences allow installation
of only those that come from the
Mac App Store and Identify Developers.
So it's basically saying because
the way you have Gatekeeper set up,
I can't open this applet.
I don't know where it is.
I don't know where it came from.
So what's a customer going
to do with that dialogue?
A common customer is
just going to look at it,
and there's only an OK button,
and they don't know what else to do.
Now, a power user might know that you can
select the applet in the desktop,
and then you can select
open from the action menu,
and you get a similar dialogue informing
you that it's from an unsigned developer.
But it will allow you the ability
to open and then continue to open.
So you can do that once
you've opened it once.
But as developers, it's really important
not to depend on this,
because this is put in place for
a small fraction or a subset of
customers who are really professionals,
know what they're doing,
want to run the downloaded item.
So as somebody that provides
tools for others to use,
it's important for you
not to rely on that.
The default setting in
Mountain Lion is that second one of
Mac App Store and Identify Developers.
So then what's the solution?
How do you provide a good
experience for your customers?
How do you let them run your
applets or your scripts?
And what you do is you use the developer
signing certificate that you've gotten
and a couple command line things,
and you code sign the applet.
And then it will run as a normal
downloaded process through Gatekeeper.
The user will be able to download
your app and run with no problem.
So here to give you a demo of how
you sign in Applet and exactly
what goes into it is my good buddy,
Chris.
Take it away, Chris.
Thank you, Sal.
So we've been working hard.
We've finally come up with this
brilliant applet that now we
want to share with the world.
So how do we do that?
So the first thing we want to do,
and this applies to any applet
that you distribute really,
is you want to set a
bundle identifier for it.
Give it a unique bundle identifier.
This helps the rest of the system out
in identifying what this application is,
what preferences belong to it,
that sort of thing.
It used to be you had to just
edit the info.p list directly.
This is new in Mountain Lion,
part of the bundle contents drawer.
There's now direct UI for
changing the bundle identifier.
So I've already got it set up here.
So now we want to send
it out into the world.
And so anything that you download through
Safari is going to get flagged as being,
you know, this came from the Internet.
Gatekeeper needs to take a look at this.
I'm actually going to simulate
this process here by dropping
it on a little applet,
which, yes, was written in AppleScript.
So now if we try to open this,
we get this Gatekeeper
dialogue that essentially says,
"You downloaded this from the internet.
I have no idea who it's from,
and you told me not to allow that,
so there you go." Now, like Sal said,
a power user might know, "Okay,
you can work around this with
a contextual menu," but most
users aren't going to know that.
So how do we do this correctly?
So the very first step is get
yourself a signing certificate.
I'm not going to go into the
details of how to do that.
There was a session earlier today on
specifically dealing with developer ID.
But the presumption is
you've already got one.
It'll show up in Keychain Access.
Here's our signing certificate
with an identity of Roswell,
Inc.
And for the rest of this,
we are going to need Terminal.
So the first thing we're going
to do is actually change the
applet's permissions slightly.
We're going to mark the
applet's script as read-only.
Applets, by default,
like to write back to themselves so
they can do persistent properties.
The problem is that once
an applet is signed,
writing back to it like that will
actually invalidate the signature,
and we don't want it to do that.
So we're going to flag it as read-only,
chmod a minus w.
Thank you.
And realize that, of course,
properties will not
persist after this point.
You can't rely on that.
So use NSUser defaults, preferences,
preference file of your own devising,
something like that.
The second step,
and this is the really good bit,
of course, is code sign the applet.
So code sign, give it your developer ID,
and also give it a signing identifier,
which should match the
Which should match the bundle identifier.
And it's going to want our private key.
Yes, we want to allow that.
And if we take a peek at it here,
code sign minus display,
this all looks like what we want.
Right executable,
here's our bundle identifier.
So now if we pretend we
downloaded this again.
and run it.
We still get a Gatekeeper
dialogue because we still
download it from the internet.
Gatekeeper is very suspicious
about this internet thing.
But now it just says,
you download it from the internet.
Are you sure you want to open it?
Why, yes, we are.
And there it goes.
And now that we've approved
it once with Gatekeeper,
it's not going to ask us again.
Next time we launch it,
it just plain runs.
So that's how to sign your
applets for distribution.
And with that, back to Sal.
You guys are so polite.
I love that.
You were taught well by your parents.
Okay, so that was the second
case we were looking at.
The first case was we were
looking at user scripts,
then we looked at downloading.
[Transcript missing]
And when I click the link,
instead of a standard script window,
the AppleScript Editor application
comes to the foreground and
presents this new text window.
And in this text window,
you'll notice that there
is the sample code.
You can read the sample code,
see exactly what the
script is going to do.
You can even select the
sample code if you want,
and you can copy it,
or you can even drag it to
the desktop as a clipping.
But the one thing you can't do in
this window is run that script.
It's just there for you to view,
and it gives you the Gatekeeper
warning that this script is
from an unidentified developer.
Your security preferences
currently tell me not to open this.
Do you want to go ahead and
create a new script with this?
And if you click the New Script button,
then the code is taken from that
window and placed into a new script.
And then you can complete it.
You can compile the script,
run the script,
whatever you like to do at that point.
So there is this extra layer
of interaction that does
occur if you click a link,
and it's an AppleScript URL.
Not a big thing,
but that's something different.
A little bit more security I think we
can all live with for a better world.
So, about distributing scripts.
Now, if you work with Gatekeeper,
then it may restrict
your downloaded applets.
So, therefore,
you'll need to sign them if you
don't want that restriction to occur,
and then also be aware that Gatekeeper
might interfere with the execution of
the AppleScript colon URL by bringing
up the extra little bit of security.
Not a big issue, but I thought you'd
want to know about it.
The next thing we're going to
look at is the App Sandbox.
Now, there's been a lot of talk
about the App Sandbox and
how it impacts automation,
and everybody's had their own
ideas about how this works,
but we want to make sure that you
hear from us how well automation
works with the new App Sandbox.
So, let's take a look at this.
So, app-to-app automation,
using Apple events with your application.
So, we know that applications
Throughout the history of the Mac,
have been able to use Apple events
to communicate with each other,
to make like a request for data
from one application to another
and return back information,
or even to request an application
do something crazy for it,
like generate a picture of me.
So, in the world of a sandbox,
an application can do what it
wants within its own window,
within its own environment.
It's free to do and send itself
events and do whatever it likes.
It can exist in its own world.
However,
if it wants to send an Apple event
to another application,
it can't do that by default.
Applications can receive events,
but they can't send events
to other applications,
whether the target application's
in a sandbox or not.
That's the default behavior.
Now,
to allow the communication and all the
benefits of Apple events to still occur,
we've created this structure
called an entitlement.
And if you request and get an entitlement
to talk to a particular application,
then your Apple event works fine.
And here to talk to you about
Apple events and entitlements is Chris.
Thank you.
So first,
I wanted to spend a little time talking
about Apple Events security policy.
There have been some
misconceptions about this,
so let's get the real deal.
So first off, there are no restrictions
on receiving events.
As a sandboxed application,
you can still receive anything.
The practical upshot being that a
scriptable application is still just
as scriptable after it's sandboxed,
with no code changes required.
So I think we're going
to start with one caveat,
which is that because of how the sandbox
deals with files and extending the
sandbox to access a particular file,
if you're going to pass file references
in and out of your application,
those need to be actual file types,
not just a text string that is a path.
The Apple Event Manager is clever.
It will notice file references
in Apple Events and create
sandbox extensions for them,
but it does not try to do that
for just plain text paths.
It's too open to a bit.
So the sandbox people like to
say that one buffer overflow
shouldn't ruin your whole day.
That's where AppSandbox came from,
is the notion of being able to restrict
what an application can do so that when,
not if, when it gets exploited,
there's only so much damage it can do.
And the thing is that if an
application can't do that,
then it's not going to
be able to do anything.
So the sandbox people like to
say that one buffer overflow
shouldn't ruin your whole day.
That's where AppSandbox came from,
is the notion of being able to restrict
what an application can do so that when,
not if, when it gets exploited,
there's only so much damage it can do.
And the thing is that if an
application can escape its sandbox,
then suddenly it's unrestricted again.
You're back to this old world where a
single exploit ruins your whole day.
And Apple Events make a great
way to escape the sandbox.
You can use the finder to
escape any sort of file system
restrictions that you have.
If you can talk to Safari,
you can get around any
network restrictions.
You can just tell Terminal
to do anything you like.
It'll be happy to run a script for you.
So, no Apple events by default.
That said,
there are perfectly legitimate reasons to
send Apple events to other applications.
One fairly common use is telling
Mail to make a new message with
your own document as an attachment.
And you can get an entitlement
to let you do that.
So here's what it looks like in Lion.
We want to send an Apple event to mail.
There's an entitlement,
com.apple.security.temporaryexception.
appleevents,
and the value is a string,
which is the code signing identifier
of the application we want to talk to,
com.apple.mail.
So now we have permission to send
whatever Apple event we want to mail,
such as compose a new message.
Now, some of you may be
thinking at this point,
what do you mean temporary, exactly?
What is that?
This entitlement works,
but we're not real happy with it.
We like Apple events.
We're not real happy
with this entitlement,
and here's why.
There's something in security called
the principle of least privilege.
The idea is that an application ought
to have just enough privileges to
get its job done and nothing else.
And the existing Apple Event Entitlement
basically stomps all over that.
It allows you to send any event you want.
And mail can not just compose messages.
And we didn't just get
permission to compose messages,
we got permission to send it anything.
Which means we could also tell it to,
you know,
grub through all your mailboxes and
collect all your email addresses
and package them up in a different
message and send them off to Croatia.
Not exactly what we want.
So the existing entitlement
is simply too broad.
It grants too many privileges.
What we want is the ability
to ask for just part of a
scriptable applications interface.
We want to be able to send it
a specific command and say that
that's all we're going to do.
And that's what we're
introducing in Mountain Lion.
So they're called access groups,
Apple Event Access Groups.
An access group defines a
set of scriptable operations,
a set of commands and
classes and properties.
They can be sliced and diced
in a very flexible way.
They are part of the
application's scripting interface.
It's SDEF.
There's documentation on the exact format
in the SDEF man page in Mountain Lion.
And it's actually already being used in
a couple of Mountain Lion applications.
Mail and iTunes are both
marked up with access groups.
Mail for composing a new message,
and iTunes with access groups
to let you do playback and get
information about the currently
playing track and two for arbitrary
reading and writing of the library.
So let's look at what this looks like
in an application scripting interface.
So this is a fragment of mails SDef.
Like I said,
this is real in Mountain Lion.
So it starts off with a definition
of the application itself and how it
extends the base application class.
And it says it has an element
which is outgoing messages.
So application contains some
number of outgoing messages.
There's a class definition for
outgoing message itself which
contains things like recipients,
content, subject, yada, yada, yada.
And finally a command send
to actually send the thing.
So now we want to create an access group.
So we do that by adding the new
access group element to the SDef.
So putting it inside the
element declaration there,
we give it an identifier,
com.apple.mail.compose,
and an access read/write.
So this means now that as
part of this access group,
you are allowed to make a new mail
message and get an outgoing message.
Now this doesn't give us permission
to actually do anything with
parts of an outgoing message.
To do that, we add another access group
element with the same identifier
to the outgoing message class.
And this, because we placed it directly
inside the class element,
it applies to everything
inside that class.
So all its properties, all its elements.
So we've now got full access
to everything that is part
of an outgoing message.
And when it comes time to send,
we actually made the specific
decision that sending should
be up to the user only.
A sandboxed application really should
not have permission to do this ever.
So if it's not an access group,
then you cannot use it
with the new entitlement,
which I'll talk about in a moment.
Now, this has application to your
applications potentially as well.
If you have a scriptable application,
you should be looking at marking
it up with access groups.
It'll make it much easier and
much safer for clients to use
you in a secure environment.
And the general rule you want
to use for creating an access
group is look at -- divide things
along functional boundaries.
Look at the kind of clients you use.
Look at the kind of tasks they do.
Is there a common task that you can say,
"Okay, this group of things goes
together." So we'll make a
single access group for that.
Access groups are
perfectly free to overlap.
Something might wind up in a
couple different access groups,
such as the iTunes read and read/write,
entitlements or access groups.
And like we saw with Send,
not everything needs to
be in an access group.
You might decide that, okay,
for a sandboxed application,
this is just not appropriate.
If you had a personal user script, it is,
of course, free to access anything.
But a sandboxed application, eh,
no thanks.
So from the client application,
you're the person --
you're the application that
wants to control mail now.
There is a new entitlement for this:
com.apple.security.scriptingtargets.
The value is a little different now.
It's now a dictionary.
The keys are the code signing identifiers
of the application you want to talk to,
and the value is a list of all
the scripting -- of all the access
groups that you want to use.
So in this case,
we're composing a new mail message.
Here's the entitlement key.
The dictionary containing the
case-sensitive code signing identifiers.
And finally, the list of access groups.
So now this application,
with this in its entitlements plist,
has permission to tell Mail to
make a new outgoing message
and modify it arbitrarily,
add attachments, whatever,
but nothing else.
So principle of least privilege again.
So to sum up for app-to-app automation,
if you are receiving events,
if you are scriptable,
keep all your existing code,
minor caveat about files
versus text I mentioned before,
and add access groups.
Mark your application up with
additional access groups,
make it safe to use in
a secure environment.
If you are sending Apple events,
all of your code stays the same.
If you are sandboxed,
you will need an entitlement.
Use the new scripting targets
entitlement if you can,
if you are talking to Mail or
iTunes or some application
that has added access groups.
Otherwise, keep using the temporary
exception entitlement.
It will go away eventually, but for now,
use it if you have to.
And with that, back to Sal.
So I could tell you like
the word entitlement,
huh?
You're going, wait a minute,
wait a minute,
this doesn't cover everything that I do.
I don't want to ask for
entitlement for everything.
It's cool and everything,
the access group breaking it down,
making it, you know, okay,
it's easier to ask for that,
I can get that.
So the next thing we're going to look at,
we'll expand this a little bit,
and it's about attaching scripts.
Now, if you have an application,
you'll see this, it's fairly common,
that sometimes applications want
to host scripts written by users,
and they want to make those scripts
available in like a script menu that
the user then goes to and runs a script,
and the script does whatever
the script wants to do,
and then might get some information
from somebody else and bring it
back to the hosting application,
or it might just target the hosting
application itself and make it
do a bunch of whiz-bang things.
But application can host
and execute scripts,
and this is a common practice,
and it's been done for a while.
Not only by presenting a menu,
but many applications have events
that users can attach a script to.
For example, in Mail,
you can create a mail rule,
and this is an Apple script handler
for dealing with a mail rule.
And when it gets executed,
it gets passed, you can see up there,
it gets passed a list of the messages
that pertain to that particular
rule or were approved by that rule,
and it passes them to the script,
and they can do whatever they want.
So that's part of the
standard mail application,
is to be able to attach an
Apple script to a mail rule.
Aperture also has attachability,
and it has an Aperture import action,
and here's what it looks like.
And this particular one,
it looks for if there are
any movies on the import,
and then will make a duplicate
of the movies to the movies
folder for you automatically,
and then it will tweak the images based
upon some ISO speed ratings as well.
But here's another example of how an
application can have an Apple script
be attached to the application to use.
And the new Messages
app also has handlers.
It has numerous handlers for being
able to respond to particular events,
like somebody shows up or you
get a message from someone.
This one generates a random
automatic response to your friend,
and if you're really clever,
you can keep them going for
about 10 minutes before they
figure out it's not you.
Now, the scripts that are attached
or presented in the script menu
are usually executed by the
hosting application itself.
The hosting application will load the
script and then execute it for the user.
And therefore,
the restrictions on that script,
it inherits the restrictions or the
permissions of the hosting application.
So that means if I'm living
in this sandbox right here,
how is this going to affect?
Okay, so we have our little happy
application in the sandbox,
and it has a script menu
and some user scripts.
So the user selects something
from the script menu,
and the application loads
that particular script.
And then if that script targets
the hosting application itself,
everything's fine,
because in your own sandbox,
you're king of the world,
you can do whatever you like.
And as long as the scripts are
targeting your application,
you can just go like crazy.
And they can do whatever you want.
But let's look at a different scenario.
So you have an attachable
application here,
and the user's created a script that
wants to target another application.
Well, we've seen in the prior section
when Chris was talking about,
you can't send an Apple event to
another application by default.
What you need to do is
have an entitlement.
And then once you have an entitlement
for the target application,
you can send it to another application.
And then once you have an entitlement
for the target application,
you can send it to another application.
Then it runs fine.
Well, this is all well and good,
but there's an issue that
arises in that the application,
the hosting application,
really doesn't have an idea of
who the user script is targeting.
There might be dozens and
hundreds of apps on that computer,
and the hosting application doesn't
have a way of knowing what every
application's in those user scripts.
Therefore, it can't get in.
And so we're going to advance an
entitlement for every possible scenario,
because then applications
would walk around,
you know,
they'd be entitlement bound with
like tons and tons of entitlements.
And it's too complex, too wieldy.
So the solution to this scenario
to keep providing the kind of
functionality that you're used to,
that the customer is used to,
and still make it
convenient as you have been,
is to involve the user.
And what it does is the user takes
the scripts and puts them in a
sequestered folder that the system's
aware of called application scripts.
And then the application,
when the user selects
a script from the menu,
the application requests
the system to execute it.
And because, remember,
scripts written by you and executed by
the system run without restrictions,
the script runs without restrictions.
So even though you're still hosting,
you're still running.
So even though you're still hosting
the menu and making it convenient,
the code gets executed by the
system rather than the application.
Now, there is a new directory
called application scripts,
and there's a new class and
foundation called NS user script
task that makes this all possible.
And Chris,
why don't you tell us about it again?
Semi-interesting?
Okay, so NSUserScriptTask.
So any application can
use NSUserScriptTask,
and it's actually something that
we've kind of wanted for a while.
It's a unified way to run user scripts.
One of the nice things about it is
that it is a one-stop class that
can handle any type of script.
It handles AppleScripts,
it handles Automator workflows,
it handles Unix scripts.
You can call them all the same way.
And for AppleScripts,
it runs them out of process now,
which wasn't true with NSAppleScript.
so you can avoid a bunch
of crazy threading issues.
So, like I said, NSUserScriptTask,
you can use that for generic scripts.
You don't get a lot of control
over exactly how you run it,
though.
For that, if you need that,
there are specific subclasses:
NSUserAppleScriptTask,
NSUserAutomatorTask, and NSUserUnixTask.
These all live in Foundation Framework.
And like I said, you can start using this
in your application,
whether you're sandboxed or not,
in Mountain Lion.
So where NSU's script task
becomes really essential,
though,
is if your application is sandboxed,
because now the script runs
outside of the sandbox.
And what makes this possible is to,
was to realize that
Before the application was
running the script itself,
but the script is not really
part of the application.
The script is part of the user's stuff.
So, can we somehow make it so
that the user designates that,
"Hey, this is part of my stuff?" And the
answer is that the user puts it in this
particular folder in application scripts.
And the application
can create this folder,
you can show it to the
user in the finder,
but it cannot write to it.
So this maintains the security.
And the only way for a script
to show up in this folder is
for the user to put it there.
And this is sufficient
user intent to say,
okay,
it is okay for us to run this script
outside the sandbox with no restrictions.
So there is a new constant
to let you find this folder.
It goes with the NS file
manager URL for directory call,
which I'll show in a moment.
The actual location again is
twiddle library application
scripts and then the code sign-in
identifier of your application.
Once again, you can create this folder,
you can read from it,
you can enumerate the contents, whatever.
The substructure of the folder
is completely up to you,
but you cannot write to it.
And there is no entitlement
required for using this.
It's just considered part of
the base application behavior.
So let's start looking at
some code for how to use this.
So this is the code to locate and
optionally create the scripts folder.
Like I said, this is part of
NS File Manager URL for Directory.
There's a new constant for it,
NS Application Scripts Directory.
The only domain for which it
is defined is the user domain.
And like I said, you can create it.
You can ask to create it.
You do have permission to do that.
And from there,
you can use it to show to the user,
build a pop-up of all
the scripts there are,
whatever.
So when it comes time to
actually run a script,
This is what it looks like.
So in this case,
we're just using a generic script,
generic running.
So we allocate a NSUser script task,
init with URL.
If the script is, you know,
if your sandboxed script
isn't in the scripts folder,
or if it isn't a format
that's recognized,
you'll get nil and an error back.
And you'll actually get a
concrete instance of one of those
subclasses as the result from this.
And to execute it, you simply call
executeWithCompletionHandler.
When the completion block fires,
the script is done,
and error will be nil if it worked,
or non-nil if it didn't.
Do what you need to.
If you simply want fire
and forget scripts,
just pass nil as the completion handler,
and it'll take care of itself.
So, as Sal mentioned,
a common use for trigger-based scripts
is they will trigger based on some
event that happened in the application,
like mail messages arrived,
a calendar event went off,
you imported some pictures,
there were some new
files added to a folder.
And commonly for these handlers,
they will get past the things
that caused the change,
the photos that got imported,
the files that got added.
So to do that, you would need to actually
pass those to the script.
You'd be specifically running
an AppleScript script,
and here's how to pass
extra information to it.
So,
allocation looks almost exactly the same,
except that we're allocating an
AppleScript task specifically.
And then you build up an Apple event
that represents all the information
that you want to pass to the script.
If you're already doing
this using NSAppleScript,
this is the exact same event
that you would build up and
pass to execute with AppleEvent.
And finally,
you actually call the script.
Execute with AppleEventCompletionHandler.
Again, almost the same.
The one difference is that
the CompletionHandler not
only gets the error back,
it also gets another
NSAppleEventDescriptor,
which is the result
of running the script,
if you want to use that.
So, to sum up,
if you've got user scripts,
use NSUserScriptTask.
Works great whether
you're sandboxed or not.
I should stress that it is for
user-supplied scripts only.
Because of this "runs
outside the sandbox" thing,
it would actually be inappropriate
to use it for scripts that are
built into your application.
So, NSUserScriptTask can
replace NSAppleScript,
AMWorkflow,
and NSTask in your application,
but don't just do a
blind find and replace.
Only use it for user scripts.
Use the specific subclasses if you
need particular control over exactly
how you pass information to or get
information back from the scripts.
And use the application scripts folder.
Again, NSApplicationScriptTask.
The NSApplicationScripts
directory for your scripts.
The script must live in there if your
application is going to be sandboxed.
And that's it.
Back to Sal.
Very cool.
So, to summarize what we've done with
automation and with security.
In Mountain Lion,
security is an important
focus of the operating system,
and we know that automation
remains essential to the OS and
the way that a Mac works.
And what we've done is
we've combined the two,
enabling abilities so that you
have automation with security.
Now, for personal automation, again,
the scripts that you write
using AppleScript Automator,
the Terminal, and Services,
all of those run with no
changes and no restrictions.
For when you distribute scripts,
[Transcript missing]